A software program called a course management system (CMS) is made to automate and simplify the administration of courses and associated procedures. A content management system (CMS), commonly utilized in higher education establishments including colleges, universities, and schools, offers a centralized platform where administrators, teachers, and students can get course materials, monitor advancement, and enhance communication. With the use of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and MSSQL technologies, this system—which was developed with ASP.NET MVC 5 and the Entity Framework in C#—offers a comprehensive solution for handling faculty assignments, departmental hierarchies, course offerings, and student registration. Administrators can register students more easily since the CMS enters their information into the system with ease. It also makes it possible to set up and maintain departments, classes, and instructors, providing a centralized location for managing school operations. Students can pick courses from their departments, and the system automates the assignment of classrooms and timetables to optimal resource utilization. Furthermore, the CMS is used to assign courses to teachers, which expedites the learning process. A significant benefit of the technology is that it makes post-examination processing easier. Students' results are made public and accessible on the website. Additionally, the CMS has features that enhance academic cooperation, such as messaging, discussion forums, and announcement tools. Administrators may monitor student performance and pinpoint areas for improvement with the use of its reporting and analytics tools, which facilitate data-driven decision-making. The CMS's compatibility with mobile devices and support for many languages ensures accessibility for all users. The CMS enhances academic management's efficiency and transparency by offering a user-friendly interface and robust features. This fosters collaboration and learning, which eventually advances the success of the educational institution.



